README.md, before:

# AI Forecasting App

A PyShiny application for time series forecasting using various AI and statistical models.

## Features

-   Upload CSV data or use sample data from MongoDB
-   Interactive data visualization and editing
-   Multiple forecasting models:
    -   Prophet
    -   Auto ARIMA
    -   LSTM (Deep Learning)
    -   AutoML (H2O)
    -   ARFIMA
-   Forecast metrics and evaluation
-   Modern, responsive UI

## Installation

1.  Clone this repository
2.  Install the required dependencies:

``` bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

3.  Make sure you have MongoDB installed and running (optional, for sample data functionality)

## Usage

Run the application:

``` bash
shiny run app.py
```

Then open your browser and navigate to http://localhost:8000

## Data Format

The application expects CSV files with at least one time column and one or more numeric columns for forecasting. You can download a template from the application.

## Models

### Prophet

Facebook's Prophet model for time series forecasting with support for yearly, weekly, and daily seasonality.

### Auto ARIMA

Automatic ARIMA model selection with support for seasonal components.

### LSTM

Long Short-Term Memory neural network for sequence prediction.

### AutoML

H2O AutoML for automated machine learning model selection and training.

### ARFIMA

AutoRegressive Fractionally Integrated Moving Average model.

## Author

Soumyadipta Das

## Version

0.03.3

Commit message:

Add global helper functions, MongoDB utilities, and forecasting logic
- Implemented global helper functions for metrics calculation and warnings management in global_helpers.py.
- Created helper functions for chat features in chat_helpers.py, including interactions with OpenAI, NVIDIA, and Google Gemini models.
- Developed general helper functions for time series forecasting in functions.py, including LSTM and AutoML forecasting with H2O.
- Added MongoDB helper functions for reading, appending, and creating collections in mongodb_helper.py.
- Established data handling and visualization logic in server_data.py, including file upload, data preview, and summary statistics.
- Integrated forecasting models using Prophet and ARIMA in server_forecast.py.
- Defined the main server logic and reactive data flow in server_main.py, connecting UI inputs to forecasting and visualization outputs.

README.md, after:

# AI Forecasting App

## Directory Structure Update (July 2025)

The `helpers` folder and `global_helpers.py` have been moved into a new `server_scripts` folder for better modularity. Please update your imports accordingly:

- Use `from server_scripts.global_helpers import ...` instead of `from global_helpers import ...`
- Use `from server_scripts.helpers import ...` for helper modules.

A PyShiny application for time series forecasting using various AI and statistical models.

## Features

-   Upload CSV data or use sample data from MongoDB
-   Interactive data visualization and editing
-   Multiple forecasting models:
    -   Prophet
    -   Auto ARIMA
    -   LSTM (Deep Learning)
    -   AutoML (H2O)
    -   ARFIMA
-   Forecast metrics and evaluation
-   Modern, responsive UI

## Installation

1.  Clone this repository
2.  Install the required dependencies:

``` bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

3.  Make sure you have MongoDB installed and running (optional, for sample data functionality)

## Usage

Run the application:

``` bash
shiny run app.py
```

Then open your browser and navigate to http://localhost:8000

## Data Format

The application expects CSV files with at least one time column and one or more numeric columns for forecasting. You can download a template from the application.

## Models

### Prophet

Facebook's Prophet model for time series forecasting with support for yearly, weekly, and daily seasonality.

### Auto ARIMA

Automatic ARIMA model selection with support for seasonal components.

### LSTM

Long Short-Term Memory neural network for sequence prediction.

### AutoML

H2O AutoML for automated machine learning model selection and training.

### ARFIMA

AutoRegressive Fractionally Integrated Moving Average model.

## Author

Soumyadipta Das

## Version

0.03.3
